What does Salesforce do? Salesforce offers a diverse infrastructure of software products designed to help teams from different industries -- including marketing, sales, IT, commerce and customer service -- connect with their customers. For example, by accessing the Salesforce Customer 360 app, teams across an entire organization can connect and share a single view of customer data on an integrated platform.  Salesforce CRM provides helpful insights into customer behavior and needs through customer data analysis. By bridging the gaps between data silos from different departments, Salesforce provides a holistic view of every customer interaction with a brand.  Why is Salesforce used? Salesforce enables organizations of every size and industry to better understand and connect with their customers at a deeper level and grow their customer base. Businesses typically integrate Salesforce into their ecosystem so employees can share customer views from any device, regardless of their department or location.  Salesforce provides a 360-degree view of the customer lifecycle with streamlined workflows, centralized cloud-based data management and real-time tracking of customer analytics. According to Salesforce, more than 150,000 companies -- from small businesses to Fortune 500 companies -- use its secure and scalable cloud platform.  For example, Pardot, which was renamed Marketing Cloud Account Engagement in April 2022, is a Salesforce business-to-business (B2B) marketing automation tool that's designed to help organizations accelerate their sales with better sales intelligence, generate high-quality leads with powerful marketing tools, automate lead qualification and nurturing, and track campaign performance.  Salesforce cloud services Salesforce offers a diverse portfolio of products and services -- from CRM software and marketing and sales management options to advanced analytics. Of its cloud platforms and applications, the company is best known for its Salesforce CRM product, which is composed of the Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Service Cloud, Experience Cloud, Commerce Cloud and the Analytics Cloud.  Other Salesforce cloud offerings that address specific applications and industries include the App Cloud, IoT Cloud, Financial Services Cloud, Health Cloud, Integration Cloud, Manufacturing Cloud, Education Cloud, Nonprofit Cloud and the Vaccine Cloud.  The following list examines Salesforce cloud services and their prominent features.  1. Salesforce Sales Cloud enables sales teams to focus on the sales components of CRM in addition to customer support.  The main features of the Sales Cloud include the following:  helps track customer information and interactions in one place; automates complex business processes; provides pipeline and forecast management; helps keep all information up to date; nurtures leads; and helps monitor the effectiveness of marketing campaigns. 2. Salesforce Marketing Cloud combines all marketing channels in one place and automates the marketing processes.  The main features of the Marketing Cloud include the following:  personalizes email marketing at scale; engages with mobile messaging and mobile apps; connects social to marketing, sales and service; helps manage ad campaigns to increase customer acquisition; delivers personalized and efficient web content; automates the export of marketing data into databases; and creates one-to-one customer journeys across channels. 3. Salesforce Service Cloud provides a fast, artificial intelligence (AI)-driven customer service and support experience to customers and enables businesses to scale their operations efficiently.  The main features of the Salesforce Service Cloud include the following:  enables service teams to communicate in real time with customers through the Live Agent tool; offers seamless collaboration with customers and faster query resolutions with the integration of Slack-First Customer 360; enables customers to reach across multiple digital channels, including mobile messaging, AI-powered live chat, social media and email; helps set up a self-service center for customers that includes communities and convenient options for booking appointments, paying bills or checking account balances; uses omnichannel routing to automatically deliver cases and leads to certain employees based on their skill sets or availability; helps turn insights into actions with the Salesforce Wave analytics app; and provides a comprehensive view of workforce management -- including order placement, delivery, scheduling, installation and tracking -- through the Salesforce Field Service option. 4. Salesforce Experience Cloud enables organizations to create connected digital experiences so they can expand their reach across multiple digital channels while maintaining their brand identity. It was formerly known as the Community Cloud, which only enabled users to build communities, whereas the Experience Cloud enables users to create mobile apps, landing pages, portals and help centers.  The main features of the Experience Cloud include the following:  helps deliver personalized content based on a customer's expertise, interests or other demographics; enables the infusion of data from various digital experiences and third-party platforms under one roof; provides endless customization options for creating experiences. For example, the Lightning App Builder enables a quick setup of mobile responsive forms for gathering customer information and feedback; and provides options to recognize and reward active members of the community by dispatching scores, ranks and recognition badges.